Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain an action, adventure,
drama film called “Dawn of the Planet of
the Apes.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Several years ago, Gen-sys labs developed
a virus known as ALZ-113 to test on chimpanzees.
This caused them to show aggressive behaviors
that then led to a major incident at the Golden
Gate Bridge where the chimpanzees had a standoff
with the police.
The standoff resulted in the chimpanzees’
escape and disappearance in the woods.
The virus, dubbed as "The Simian Flu," was
accidentally exposed to humans, which slowly
became a pandemic that led to a massive population
decrease, possibly on the verge of human extinction.
Many years later, the chimpanzees have now
become apes and have evolved to develop communication
methods and even form their own civilization.
They can now band together, hunting food in
large numbers and even showing active consciousness
towards one another.
Caesar is the leader of their tribe.
His son, Blue-Eyes, joins him on the hunt.
After a successful hunt, they go home riding
horses with their spoils.
The civilization of the apes has taken the
form of a tribal system deep in the woods.
They have an education system for learning
how to read and write alphabets.
They have murals, wood-constructed structures,
weapons for hunting, and even know how to
light a fire.
Upon reaching home, Caesar witnesses his wife
giving birth to his second son and tells Blue-Eyes
about it.
Caesar and the brown ape, who was teaching
younglings earlier, named Maurice, have a
reminiscent conversation of the achievements
of their civilization.
Maurice then brings up the topic of humans,
whom Caesar had close relationships with in
the past, asking him if he still thinks about
them.
Caesar replies that he sometimes does.
Caesar explains the difference between the
two creatures: humans destroy each other while
apes unite as a family.
Caesar wonders if humanity has become extinct,
to which Maurice responds by telling Caesar
that they haven't seen humans since the last
decade.
One day two apes are on their way home from
hunting when they encounter a man.
The man, intensely terrified at the sight
of the apes, pulls out his gun to threaten
the apes and shoots one of them.
The gunshot angers the whole tribe, prompting
them to travel to the site to take action.
It turns out that the man is not alone; with
him are six more people.
After the tribe of apes arrive and surround
them, the person leading the group, Malcolm,
declares that they originally meant no harm.
Malcolm, at the sight of Caesar, feels something
off about the apes.
After a short, intense gaze with the humans,
Caesar shouts and tells the group to leave.
The group of apes chases them away, scaring
one of the humans enough for them to drop
their bag.
Maurice picks up the bag and hands it over
to Caesar.
Caesar commands one of his apes, Koba, and
two of his subordinates to follow the humans
to where they are settled.
Malcolm and his men reach a quarantine checkpoint
where their leader, Dreyfus, and a few soldiers
are settled.
They immediately report to Dreyfus about the
situation regarding the dam.
Malcolm tells Dreyfus that the dam, the reason
they were up there, is good enough to generate
power.
However, there is another problem.
On the way back to the settlement, the group
tells Dreyfus about the apes and their evolution.
Dreyfus tells them that they tell no one,
as it would potentially cause mass panic.
Ellie, Malcolm’s wife and a former doctor,
explains that the few humans left alive are
genetically immune to the virus.
Malcolm, Dreyfus, and the others reach the
settlement.
Meanwhile, Caesar and the apes have a meeting
about the situation with the humans.
Some apes want to go to war since the humans
drew first blood, but Caesar wants a diplomatic
way of dealing with the situation, saying
that they will lose what they have built if
they go to war.
After the meeting, Koba tells Caesar about
his unpleasant experience with the humans
and insists on showing their superiority and
strength.
This prompts Caesar and the tribe to get on
their horses and march into the human settlement
to declare an announcement.
When the apes arrive, the humans are visibly
alarmed, but their curiosity prompts them
to gather at the gate to meet the tribe.
Caesar, without hesitation, declares that
he doesn’t want to go to war but is prepared
to fight if they deem it necessary.
Caesar issues a warning before the tribe leaves,
returning the dropped bag, telling the humans
never to return.
Now the humans are in a state of panic, anxious
about the potential threats the apes pose
to them.
But Dreyfus sympathetically delivers a speech
to reassure them that they will find a way
to live through it and find another source
of power other than the dam.
After the crowd settles, Malcolm tells Dreyfus
that there's no other power source other than
the dam.
Willing to go through desperate measures,
Dreyfus replies that they will have to fight
the apes.
He further explains that they need to reconnect
and find other survivors around the world,
and they need to generate power for their
radio transmitter.
Unwilling to let casualties increase, Malcolm
suggests that Dreyfus give him three days
to go back and talk it through with Caesar.
Malcolm shows Dreyfus the bag that was returned
to him to reassure further that Caesar is
more than just an ape.
Dreyfus tells him that if Malcolm fails, then
he will have to resort to more drastic measures.
Malcolm proceeds to prepare for the trip.
He tells Ellie about his plan, and they, along
with their son Alexander, Carver, the man
who shot an ape, Foster, and Komp, head over
to where the apes are.
They arrive at the place on a rainy evening.
Malcolm tells everyone to stay in the truck,
and if he doesn’t return in two hours, they
should go back to the settlement without him.
Malcolm heads off and arrives at the entrance,
where he meets a bunch of angry apes.
The apes drag Malcolm over to the tribe, where
an entire ape civilization surrounds him.
He raises both of his hands to express surrender.
Then at the central tribal platform, Caesar
shows himself to meet Malcolm.
Malcolm immediately pleads to Caesar not to
kill him and only wants to show Caesar something
to understand his intentions.
Caesar silences the crowd and listens to Malcolm's
request.
Malcolm, Caesar, and some apes head over to
the dam.
Malcolm tries his best to explain how they
can restore power for the humans using the
dam.
To Malcolm's surprise, Caesar understands
that they are trying to generate electricity.
Malcolm further explains that they have no
intention of harming the apes; if they did,
they could kill him.
Caesar agrees to let them do their work but
on the condition that they surrender their
guns.
At the tribe, Koba expresses his disagreement
with Caesar's decisions, explaining that the
humans will be a potential threat if they
are given power.
Caesar tells him that he's only doing it for
peace between humans and apes.
Koba stubbornly insists that Caesar is wrong
by showing his scars as a sign of human violence
but is immediately silenced when Caesar expresses
his superior demeanor.
The next day, while the group begins to do
their work under the supervision of Caesar,
Koba and his subordinates head over to the
human settlement without Caesar knowing.
There, they sneakily discover the armory where
the weapons are kept.
While in the armory, Koba is spotted by two
armed men, who immediately corner him.
Left with no choice, Koba wittingly plays
dumb, doing random primitive movements in
front of the humans to fool them into thinking
he is harmless.
And as Koba expected, the confused men let
Koba go free, thinking he is just a lost ape.
Malcolm and the rest are working on the pipes
when a loud accident happens.
Debris falls, trapping them and injuring Carver's
leg.
This prompts the apes to check what happened,
and they immediately help them clear the debris,
rescuing Malcolm and his men.
Malcolm thanks Caesar for saving him and the
others, but due to the debris and the condition
of Carver, he requests that they be given
more time.
Then, a baby ape, Caesar's second son, approaches
the group and everyone stares in awe at it.
The young ape then discovers a hidden gun
from Carver’s things, and this immediately
causes the apes to go hostile.
Carver promptly pulls the shotgun and threatens
the apes when to his surprise, Caesar outclasses
him with his strength, pulling the shotgun
from him and knocking him down.
Caesar is about to hit Carver with the gun,
but Malcolm pleadingly tells Caesar to stop.
Infuriated, Caesar points his gun at Malcolm,
reminding him of his rule about guns.
Caesar shows mercy by throwing the shotgun
in the river and telling the group to leave
immediately.
While Malcolm and the group are packing, Malcolm
hurries back to Caesar, hoping he can explain
himself properly, and Ellie follows him.
The apes take Malcolm and Ellie to Caesar's
house, and they find out about his sick wife.
Ellie empathetically offers her medicine to
Caesar, to which Caesar agrees.
As gratitude, Caesar allows them to stay for
one more day and let his apes help them speed
up the work.
Carver is immediately kicked out and is forced
to stay in the truck.
Not long after, Koba and his subordinates
arrive at the tribe to report to Caesar about
the weapons.
Koba then heads over to the dam and immediately
assaults Alex.
Malcolm pleads with Koba to stop, and, to
everyone’s surprise, Maurice defends them
from Koba.
Caesar then shows up.
Koba starts questioning Caesar’s decisions
and leadership, telling him that he is irresponsible
to his own kind by choosing the humans over
them.
This makes Caesar furious, and he assaults
Koba, beating him up.
Koba is unable to retaliate, and the fight
is one-sided.
Caesar almost chokes Koba but stops and remembers
their principle that apes don’t kill each
other.
Koba then gets on his feet and apologizes
to Caesar.
Later that night, Koba privately tells Blue-Eyes
that he should protect Caesar in his stead
since Caesar no longer trusts Koba.
Koba also tells him that he fears Caesar’s
trust in humans may threaten his own life.
The following day, Maurice goes to meet Alex.
Alex gives Maurice the book he reads as gratitude
for defending him against Koba.
The two happily share a good time, reading
the book.
During that same morning, Koba returns to
the armory and meets the men from the other
day drinking.
Koba fools them once again, but this time,
Koba snatches a gun, ends the men's lives,
and takes the gun with him on the way back.
Malcolm and the group finally finish fixing
the generator in the dam.
Later that night, the group and Caesar find
a gasoline station in the woods with a convenience
store.
The group enjoys some music then Malcolm tells
Caesar that they have finished their work
and will finally go back home.
Caesar tells Malcolm that he finally trusts
them, and the two shake their hands.
Caesar takes them back to the settlement to
show them that the lights on their settlement
have indeed been restored.
Then just as everything is going well, Caesar
spots an armed Koba sneaking in.
Koba schemingly shoots Caesar and hides.
One of his lackeys also starts a fire in the
settlement burning the houses down.
This causes panic among the apes.
Maurice immediately realizes what's happening,
telling Malcolm and the group to run and lead
them out.
Koba then takes the stage and frames the humans
for killing Caesar and starting the fire.
Koba then acts as their new leader and rallies
the apes to start an invasion against the
humans.
Back in the power-restored city, the people
are celebrating and partying.
Dreyfus and his men finally start reaching
out to other cities.
While this is happening, the apes invade the
armory and steal human weapons.
Dreyfus immediately gets notified of the attack,
so he evacuates the settlement, armed his
forces, and prepares to defend.
Dreyfus and his men wait in anticipation as
the hoard of apes approaches on their horses
amidst the mist.
The apes start firing, forcing Dreyfus and
his men to take cover.
Dreyfus immediately retaliates, firing at
the apes with precision.
It is total bloodshed.
Blue-Eyes sees his fellow brethren dying and
struggling to survive.
Koba then gets on one of the horses, picks
up two rifles, and initiates a fierce one-person
counter-attack.
Dreyfus immediately retaliates by firing a
rocket launcher and slowing the push.
However, the apes are slowly overwhelming
the men with their numbers, pushing through
the first line of defense.
To Dreyfus's surprise, a tank flanks the apes
eliminating a vast number of them.
But Koba notices this, and with his uncanny
maneuver, he is able to intercept the tank,
and from there, the apes annihilate the defense.
Dreyfus watches in terror, failing to protect
his people from the invasion.
The group finds the wounded Caesar in the
woods, and they help take him to their truck.
Caesar tells the confused group that an ape
shot him, so they immediately head out.
The hoard of apes continues to chase the humans,
running away, intending to capture them.
A man bravely tries to slow the pursuit, but
Koba knocks him down.
Koba then commands one of the apes to finish
the man off but refuses as he thought Caesar
wouldn’t want this.
Angry, Koba drags the ape upstairs and throws
him off the railing, killing him.
Koba then incites fear to the rest of the
doubtful apes, including Blue-Eyes, telling
them Koba is their new leader now.
The apes successfully capture the remaining
humans and take them somewhere for enslavement.
Malcolm and the group arrive at an abandoned
city Caesar was leading them to.
Here, they found themselves at Caesar’s
past home, and the group discovered that he
once lived with a man.
Malcolm tells Ellie that he will go back to
the settlement to retrieve the surgical kit
needed to mend Caesar’s wounds.
The apes imprison the humans in cages, holding
them captive.
Koba sends out his apes to find other humans
and capture them.
Amidst the crowd, Blue-eyes, to his surprise,
sees Maurice and other apes held prisoners
as well for their loyalty to Caesar.
Maurice tells Blue-Eyes to protect himself.
Malcolm arrives at the settlement and rushes
his way in.
Malcolm retrieves the medicine but finds difficulty
on the way out as the apes approach his way.
Malcolm tries his best to avoid them but is
met by a silhouette of an ape holding a gun.
The ape reveals himself to be Blue-Eyes, who
helps Malcolm upon hearing that Caesar is
still alive.
Blue-Eyes and Caesar happily reunite, and
Caesar tells Blue-Eyes about Koba.
Later that night, Caesar realizes his mistakes,
his misplaced trust, and his view about humans
and apes.
Blue-Eyes tells Caesar about Maurice, the
prisoners, and Ash's death.
Caesar is now desperate to stop Koba, and
Blue-Eyes is willing to help.
The next day, Blue-Eyes devises a plan to
break the prisoned apes free.
Later that night, Blue-Eyes baits the guarding
apes into the prison bus, and with the strength
of Maurice and the others, they wipe out the
guarding apes.
Blue-Eyes assists them, and they break free
along with the rest of the human prisoners.
Caesar finds himself reminiscing at his old
home.
He finds a camera and sentimentally watches
a video of his time together with his good
old friend.
Malcolm walks in, and they chat for a while
until Blue-Eyes and the refugees arrive there.
Blue-Eyes tells Caesar that Koba is planning
something terrible, so Caesar, Malcolm, and
the rest of the apes immediately head for
the settlement.
In the tunnel, Malcolm meets Dreyfus but not
before he tells the apes to take a pathway
that leads directly towards the settlement
and separating from the apes.
Malcolm finds out that Dreyfus and his few
left men plan to blow up the tower and that
Dreyfus needs Malcolm's help.
Malcolm is conflicted by this, so after thinking
it through, he subtly takes a rifle and points
it towards Dreyfus's team, telling them that
they should give Caesar a chance.
Caesar and the others arrive at the top of
the tower where Koba and his lackeys are.
The two have a short verbal standoff where
they clash their views and throw insults.
This ultimately leads to a one-on-one fight
to prove who's stronger.
Koba is aggressive, throwing punches on Caesar,
and they both fall.
Back on their feet, Koba pushes the attack
and lands his punches onto Caesar, and they
fall again along with some debris.
Caesar is back on his feet, looks at Koba,
who is now injured from the fall.
Malcolm continues to stall time, trying to
convince Dreyfus that he should give the apes
a chance.
The fight continues at the tower.
Koba continues the attack with his metal rod
while Caesar is on the defensive, jumping
platform after platform.
The run stops when Caesar picks up a metal
stair step as a shield.
Caesar tells Koba that he mistakenly trusted
him like a brother.
Koba tells Caesar that he only fights for
the apes while continuing to attack the defensive
Caesar.
Caesar then refutes his statement, telling
Koba that he only fights for himself.
This infuriates Koba to the point of irrationality,
and he continues to make attacks until his
wound kicks in.
This gives Caesar an opening to retaliate
and strikes him hard on his wound.
Caesar is now on the counter-attack, parrying
Koba until he is almost down.
But Koba is still able to retaliate and fight.
Malcolm continues to stall some more, but
Dreyfus can finally distract him enough to
make a quick move to grab the detonator.
Dreyfus pauses for a while and tells Malcolm
that he's only saving the human race, then
proceeds to blow himself and his team along
with the tower's foundation.
Malcolm is able to avoid the explosion by
jumping to a safe spot at the side of the
tracks.
The explosion interrupts the fight between
Koba and Caesar, and it continues to make
the tower collapse, increasing the casualties
of apes above it.
Caesar and his subordinates survive along
with some apes.
Koba survives as well, and he picks up a gun
from one of the dying apes.
Going for a desperate attempt, Koba tries
to shoot Caesar and some apes who are helping
the other injured apes.
Koba hits Maurice, and this prompts Caesar
to aggressively jump on the ferocious Koba,
knocking him at the edge of the tower, and
is now holding on to a damaged platform.
Caesar approaches the platform, and Koba,
desperate to live, reminds Caesar that apes
don't kill each other.
Caesar pulls Koba’s hand as if trying to
help him, but he takes one look at his injured
men and comes to a simple conclusion; that
Koba is no longer part of them.
So Caesar lets go of Koba’s arm, and Koba
screamingly falls to his death.
Caesar rallies the apes at the ground of the
settlement.
There he finds the apes dragging Malcolm out
of the subway.
Caesar tells the apes to leave Malcolm.
Malcolm immediately informs Caesar that soldiers
are coming and that the apes are in danger,
telling them that they should go.
Caesar acknowledges the wrongdoings of the
apes, telling Malcolm that they had already
started a war that humans will not simply
forgive.
Caesar tells Malcolm to go before the fighting
begins.
The two share their sentiments for a short
while then Malcolm slowly leaves.
Caesar and Blue-Eyes happily reunite with
the rest of the family, and the apes gather
together.
The apes then bow down to Caesar, acknowledging
him as their rightful leader.
Caesar stands in the face of the sunrise,
lying in anticipation for the storm that's
about to come.